<div class='scrollbar'><div id='centerframe'><div style='color:#fdda19;font-size:28px'><pre>
懷唐伊日

Celebrations at Waitangi usually commence the previous day, 
5 February, at the Ngapuhi Te Tii marae,
when political dignitaries are welcomed onto the marae and hear speeches from the local iwi.

At dawn on Waitangi Day, the Royal New Zealand Navy raises the New Zealand Flag,
Union Flag and White Ensign on the flagstaff in the treaty grounds.
The ceremonies during the day generally include a church service and cultural displays such as dance and song.
Several waka and a navy ship also re-enact the coming ashore of Governor Hobson to sign the treaty.
The day closes with the flags being lowered by the Navy in a traditional ceremony

(
These speeches often deal with the issues of the day, and vigorous and robust debate occurs. 
Politicians are usually granted speaking rights, but on occasion,
the privilege has been withdrawn, as with Leader of the Opposition Helen Clarkin 1999,
Prime Minister John Key in 2016 when one faction indicated it would even block him from entering the marae,
and Prime Minister Bill English in 2017.
)

Good Friday (耶蘇受難日)

Good Friday is a religious and statutory public holiday in New Zealand.
It is on the Friday before Easter Sunday.
Many Christians remember Jesus Christ's crucifixion on Good Friday.
Good Friday is the start of a four-day weekend, which includes Easter Monday, in New Zealand. 
Many people go on short trips out of town or spend time with family.
Many churches hold special services and some may hold long prayer vigils.
Some churches, especially Catholic churches, see Good Friday as a fast day and people only eat three small meals and,
often, no meat at all. Some people substitute meat with fish.

ANZAC DAY (澳紐軍團日 紀念第一次世界大戰 world war one)

Many New Zealanders observe Anzac Day on April 25. 
It commemorates the landing of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) at Gallipoli, Turkey, during World War I in 1915. 
This event, also observed in Australia,remembers all New Zealanders who served their country in wars and conflicts.

Many New Zealanders attend parades, dawn ceremonies or commemorative ceremonies on Anzac Day.
The Anzac Day parades involve returned service personnel wearing their medals while marching behind banners.
Defence force members, cadets and youth organizations also join in the parade.

It’s also common to lay wreaths to remember New Zealanders who fought and died in past wars and conflicts.
Some people travel to be part of a commemorative service at Gallipoli, in Turkey, on Anzac Day.
